i have kept a reminder to blog at least monthly but the reminder shows up every week and in the habit of dismissing it, I must have let many more months since my last post. I have also let many more months pass even since I last went home to folks and I have my own paranoia against the pandemic responsible for more than a year of not seeing them. This is supposed to be the norm for parents living in another country, not an hour away by flight. 

I guess the pandemic has shown me to myself what I am capable of. It is possible to stay absolutely, completely, entirely indoors within the confines of my apartment and I proved this to myself for close to 10 months with an exception of maybe less than 3 or 4 hours in all in all this time. If I have got mental (more than I probably am) in thiis confinement, no one is there to tell. Typically it is so cold here, I am not just confined to my apartment but to my own room with all doors and windows closed to reduce the flow of chilling air as much as possible.

I am writing this in focuswriter so I am not looking at when I made my own posts. So I may or may not rewind back my memories to what has already been said. There are obviously so many things to talk about and in such detail. I don’t target audience as such, that makes it more inviting to talk about anything and everything that I know decent amount of stuff or at least only the part I have read about.

I have completed just 5 months at my new job that started and still continues to be completely remote.In the little time, there has been and still is a huge amount of work that is on my plate to finish. It’s less worrying than being reminded of it every few days. I do my best to progress through the task, but I often find myself learning things either related to the task at hand, or while debugging issues for my teammate, who is also helping reach both of us reach the targets. 

On the weekends, I haven’t been able to get serious and have been seriously lagging behind on all my learning and chores and cooking aspirations. Incidentally, this weekend, I made some time to get back to my weekend coding project and every time I wonder what is more to do with that limited project and I find something new to add or learn some new way to do a few things in the project. It gives me a practical lesson in some of the concepts that I would not have explored in my regular flow of coding in day to day work where I use what I know right now and finish my task. 